Restructure GitHub Actions CI/CD (#3340)
astronomer/docs: astro/ci-cd-templates/github-actions-deployment-preview.md

---
sidebar_label: Preview Deployment templates

> title: GitHub Actions templates for preview Deployments

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: GitHub Actions templates for deploying code to preview Deployments on Astro
```

id: github-actions-deployment-preview
description: Use pre-built Astronomer CI/CD templates to automate deploying Apache Airflow DAGs to a preview Deployment using GitHub Actions.
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

> The Astronomer [deploy action](https://github.com/astronomer/deploy-action/tree/deployment-preview#deployment-preview-templates) includes several sub-actions that can be used together to create a complete [Deployment preview](ci-cd-templates/template-overview.md#preview-deployment-templates) pipeline, a configuration that allows you to test your code before deploying to production in an Astro Deployment that mirrors the configuration of an existing Deployment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Astronomer [deploy action](https://github.com/astronomer/deploy-action/tree/deployment-preview#deployment-preview-templates) includes several sub-actions that can be used together to create a complete [Deployment preview](ci-cd-templates/template-overview.md#preview-deployment-templates) pipeline, a configuration that allows you to test your code changes in an ephemeral development Deployment before promoting your changes to a production Astro Deployment.
```

> The Deployment preview templates use GitHub secrets to manage the credentials needed for GitHub to authenticate to Astro. You can also use a secret to store the credentials for your [secrets backend](secrets-backend.md) so that preview Deployments have access to secret Airflow variables or connections during tests. See [Deployment preview template with secrets backend implementation](#deployment-preview-template-with-secrets-backend-implementation).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Deployment preview templates use GitHub secrets to manage the credentials needed for GitHub to authenticate to Astro. You can specify the credentials for your [secrets backend](secrets-backend.md) so that preview Deployments have access to secret Airflow variables or connections during tests. See [Deployment preview template with secrets backend implementation](#deployment-preview-template-with-secrets-backend-implementation).
```

Because Deployment preview templates also use the [`deploy-action` template](github-actions-deploy-action.md), which is available in the [GitHub Marketplace](https://github.com/marketplace/actions/deploy-apache-airflow-dags-to-astro), it automates the deploy process and includes additional features for more complex automation workflows. Specifically, the action can automatically:

- Choose a deploy type based on the files that were changed in a commit. This allows you to use the same template for DAG deploys and image deploys.
- Test DAGs as part of the deploy process and prevent deploying if any of the tests fail. These tests are defined in the `tests` directory of your Astro project.

This means that the `deploy-action` triggers both image deploys and DAG deploys depending on the type of file changes that you made. If you committed changes only to DAG files, the action triggers a DAG deploy. If you committed changes to any other file, the action triggers an image deploy. See the [Deploy Action README](https://github.com/astronomer/deploy-action#readme) to learn more about using and customizing this action.

> Read the following sections to choose the right template for your use case. If your team builds custom Docker images, use the _custom image_ implementation. If you do not have access to Astronomer's `deploy-action`, use the [private network templates](#private-network-templates).
> 
> To learn more about CI/CD on Astro, see [Choose a CI/CD strategy](set-up-ci-cd.md).
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Trying to find ways to trim this overview, since you have to scroll quite a bit before getting to the actual setup

## Prerequisites

- An [Astro project](cli/develop-project.md#create-an-astro-project) hosted in a GitHub repository.
- An [Astro Deployment](create-deployment.md).
- A [Deployment API token](deployment-api-tokens.md), [Workspace API token](workspace-api-tokens.md), or [Organization API token](organization-api-tokens.md).
- Access to [GitHub Actions](https://github.com/features/actions).

> Each implementation might have additional requirements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Specific templates might have additional requirements.
```

If you use a [self-hosted runner](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/hosting-your-own-runners/managing-self-hosted-runners/about-self-hosted-runners) to execute jobs from GitHub Actions, the Astro CLI's `config.yaml` file, which stores default deploy details, might be shared across your organization and hence multiple CI/CD pipelines. To reduce the risk of accidentally deploying to the wrong Deployment, ensure the following:

- Add `ASTRO_API_TOKEN` to your repository and include a check in your GitHub workflow to verify that it exists.
- Use Deployment API tokens, which are scoped only to one Deployment, instead of Workspace or Organization API tokens.
- Specify `deployment-id` or `deployment-name` in your action. For example, `astro deploy <deployment-id>` or `astro deploy -n <deployment-name>`.
- Add the command `astro logout` at the end of your workflow to ensure that your authentication token is cleared from the `config.yaml` file.

:::

## Standard Deployment preview template

The standard Deployment preview template uses GitHub secrets and an Astro Deployment API token to create a preview Deployment whenever you create a new feature branch off of your main branch.

> ### Prerequisites
> 
> - An Astro project hosted in a GitHub repository.
> - A [Workspace API token](workspace-api-tokens.md).
> - A [Deployment](create-deployment.md).
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Deleting this on the basis of the line "Each implementation might have additional requirements", which implies that the top level prerequisites apply to all sub-topics.

    name: Astronomer CI - Deploy code to main Deployment

    on:
      push:
        branches:
          - main

    env:
      ## Set your API token as a GitHub secret
      ASTRO_API_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.ASTRO_API_TOKEN }}

    jobs:
      deploy:
        runs-on: ubuntu-latest
        steps:
        - name: Deploy code to main Deployment
          uses: astronomer/deploy-action@v0.4
          with:
            deployment-id: <main-deployment-id>
    ```

    All four workflow files must have the same Deployment ID specified. The actions use this Deployment ID to create and delete preview Deployments based on your main Deployment.

## Deployment preview template with secrets backend implementation

If you use a [secrets backend](secrets-backend.md) to manage Airflow objects such as variables and connections, you can configure your action to grant preview Deployments access to your secrets backend. This means that DAGs in the preview Deployment can access your secret Airflow objects for testing purposes.

This template makes use of the `AIRFLOW__SECRETS__BACKEND_KWARGS` environment variable to store information and credentials for your secrets backend.

### Prerequisites

> - An Astro project hosted in a GitHub repository.
> - A [Workspace API token](workspace-api-tokens.md).
> - A [Deployment](create-deployment.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> - A [secrets backend](secrets-backend.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A [secrets backend](secrets-backend.md), such as Hashicorp Vault.
```
